Yunan “Beverly” Yang                                                                                                   636 words
Professor Anderson
CO201
Oct. 2rd, 2018

BU Updates Public Transit, Students Want More

Last semester, many students questioned and hoped for better productivity of transportation at Boston University; in response to students’ dissatisfaction, BU announced several improvements to make the transportation system better.

Beginning Aug. 29, 2018, Boston University introduced the New Fenway Campus Shuttle traveling between Central and South Campus, making commuting simpler for those living off campus in the southern areas. While most students were unaware of this latest improvement, other modifications were delivered as well.

In the past three years, Boston University had refurbished the shuttles by “[rebuilding] engines, [applying] new graphics on the outside, and [adding] bike racks to the front of every bus,” said Carl Larson, one of the officers in Parking and Transportation Services. With the new conspicuous red and orange colors in the front of the bus, students found it easy for them to spot the shuttles several miles away.

“Whenever I’m waiting for the shuttle in front of the School of Education building, I can see the shuttle coming over a block away because of the color,” said senior student Hedy Yang. According to her, these new pictures and refurbishing bright colors looked better and more vital than the original white ones.

Not only had the Parking and Transportation Services improved the shuttles with new updates, they also introduced other types of public transportation services for students, along with attractive discounts and privileges.

Along Commonwealth Avenue, MBTA(Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority)’s Boston College Green line is a convenient option for students running down the middle of the BU Central Campus. From Kenmore to BU West, five stops make it easier for students to arrive at classes.

While some complain that taking the T costs more than the free Shuttle, there are privileges for student commuters here at BU. According to the website of BU Parking and Transportation Services, during the fall and spring semesters, students have an 11% discounted rate purchasing four months of MBTA passes every month.

“I enjoy taking the T,” said Zhenjing Gui, a COM student living in Atrium this semester, “especially when I get the semester pass which saves me a lot of extra money.”

Furthermore, the milestone of improvements did not just stop here. BU Parking and Transportation Services announced the new partnership with Bluebikes early in September. Student commuters in Charles River Campus can enjoy a 47% discount becoming Bluebikes member for only $52.50 every year, with $4.38 per month which is even less than two T rides.

Despite all the impressive progress made by the Parking and Transportation Services, some students still found the system needs improvements. “We [just] need bigger and more of all of it,” said Serena Hull, a CAS student waiting in front of the Marsh Chapel.

“I have just missed the bus heading to Hotel Commonwealth,” said a sophomore Emma Bunker, hoping to get back to Myles Standish Hall as soon as possible after a long day of classes and work. “The new shuttle map is so messed up [with three] different circles at each stop. Moreover, these new loops messed up the time schedule as well.”

Though knowing the advantages of taking public transportation, others find themselves walking to their destinations. “Living off campus, I don't usually trust the T. [Instead,] I choose to walk,” said Ao Yan.

Carrying more than 2,500 people per day on the shuttle, the Parking and Transportation Services still have many aspects to improve. “We do have some plans in the works involving technology [with our shuttles],” said Larson on the expectations of improving public transportation at Boston University for the coming years.

Regarding the lack of efficiency, Larson said that “[recently] our buses are equipped with APC (automatic passenger count) systems, determining peak usage times on Comm Ave, [which helped scheduling shuttles for maximum impact].”