Off the bus arrives the narrator, 
he deserves the name of a story creator.
Genes and heredity are his subjects of concern
Where arrangements of cells and syntheses he learns.
Be it winter or summer, he exhausts himself on research,
Around the clock, in labs he perches,
This immutable persistence is not paid in vain 
For all his achievements and fame.
No other transportation is available for him to choose, 
Carefully he crouches down and flicks the dust off of his shoes.
Around this desolated district, he seems to know his way,
For he needs no map and his route is not of a disarray.
Finally, he reaches an orphanage, 
with an immaculate hand, he knocks a tempo of proportionate.
A dozen of years has flowed away, since the first tale he told.
Down the dim passageway, he is again at his old abode,
For he was orphaned once in his youth,
And now he visits and tells stories to amuse.
“My audience,” he says, “here and now I bear no lecture of academics
nor I intend to hold any polemics.
My tale is on an abstruse issue that haunted me 
Since I got my doctor’s degree,
The means and axiomatic standard to recognize one’s identity.
Is it lineage, social status or entity?
Prate no more, and here I start my tale.”

It’s an era several decades ahead of us I have to tell,
When a sharp cry blared at a marvelous decibel.
The sangfroid father paced the floor,
Constantly stared at the closed door.
He was in a formal coat with his tie fastened,
Waited for his child to descend.
Seconds later, the nurse came out,
With a baby in arms and a face of devout. 
Before they exchanged a word, the doctor rushed in,
Demanding to inform the father something
Of adverseness. He uttered, “Sir,
I commiserate on your son’s misfortune before he learns to chirr,
For he is born of cerebral hypoxia 
and his brain cells will gradually die out due to anoxia.
Upon his situation, nonreversible, dementia and unconsciousness 
Are his fate, so say the neurologist.”
“Any practice to mitigate his condition?” 
“No medical care conduces to recondition,
nevertheless, here I make my suggestion, 
with cloning technology, you can create a duplication
Of your son’s brain. Then at the right time
transplant this carbon copy which commits no crime.”
Since there was no other method, this plan was agreed upon, 
That day the father brought home a pair of identical juniors Braun.
Junior Braun by blood was raised under straitlaced rules, 
His father, the ambassador, intended to make him a jewel
In the diplomatic world. Before he learned to ride a bicycle,
He read Latin, Spanish and English classics philosophical.
He practiced social poise and grace,
and always carried a professional smiling face.
He was never overcome by lassitude, even with a schedule
As busy as the president; instead, he showed his aptitude.
At times, the ambassador brought him to formal balls,
and people compromised that there was no better lad in the world,
and he succeeded his father’s eruditeness and aplomb. 
It was a walkover for him to tell Oolong from Assam,
or to win a lady’s heart by conjuring roses from a scarf.
His light never went off before the arising of stars.
In the midst of lectures as well as colloquiums, 
The youth behaved as son of his father without any opprobrium,
Till his near eighteenth birthday. 
Few days before Junior Braun came of age, 
He stayed up several nights to read some words of sage,
Subsequently, he suffered a severe headache.
His parents, believing that his illness since birth was putting his life at stake,
Asked him to rest for a few days. 
In ennui, a visit to his “brother” he paid.
The Clone was napping in the backyard sun
Dressed in self-made homespun.
For many years the Clone lived as a shadow,
No one cared whether he worked or tangoed.
Although he was allowed to act discretionarily,
he didn't have an ICD for it was unnecessary.
He lived only as a means to cure his "brother", 
so it was needless to prove him a haeres or foster.
He cannot use public resources, nor could he 
Shop in markets and travel oversea,
For he was not credited as a human creature,
And he was always surrounded by assaults and impeachers.
The Clone dreamed of being like Junior Braun,
And he looked for attention long. 
He imitated Braun’s temperaments and courtly manners too.
He fantasized that one day he can go to see Japanese yews.
He also learnt branches of knowledge, 
He was left handed and always lolloped.
The brothers met and discovered their shared propensities.
"Men acquire particular qualities
by constantly acting in particular ways."
Junior Braun nodded mannerly, and so he said,
 “We share similarities in appearance and belief in dictums,
tell me, brother, are you a me-tooism?”
The Clone flushed crimson with anger,
But after a minute he controlled his temper.
“Tal padre, tal hijo.” He replied,
“Our resemblance is without doubt implied
by our brotherhood. Why do you carry an unhealthy pallor,
brother, do you have any bother? 
Come and lay under the sun today 
And all your troubles will melt away.”
For the first time, junior Braun studied his duplication, 
The idea of sunshine and leisure created some agitation
In his mind, and immediately after, a plan formed.
“You show some shrewdness and are not deformed.”
Junior Braun spoke, “Why don't we exchange identities
for a couple of days and, likewise, we change responsibilities.”
The agreement was made that Junior Braun would 
Lend his ICD to the Clone and their secret was secured.
At the switch, junior Braun felt unease but free.
He gave a final caveat, “Give me your guarantees:
No use of scurrilous language and don’t reveal that you are my counterpart.”
After the Clone had promised, they departed. 
On the first day of his vacation, 
Junior Braun took pleasure in nature’s creation. 

He admired the grandiose beauty of sunrise and nightfall,
Besides, he observed creature no matter big or small:
A busily moving swarm of ants, 
And some germinating plants.
With the 5-D personal experience technology,
He was surrounded by wonders he read in anthologies:
The Grand Canyon, Mount Everest and polar lights, 
The harmonious oceans, soggy marshes are all in sight.
He felt pure and whole as he traveled around the globe,
Among the works of God, his face glowed. 
On the second day, the Clone went to an assembly with the ambassador, 
He wore a triangular brooch and perfume of lavender.
Mrs. Ambassador kissed him goodbye on his cheeks,
and told him that she made his favorite soup flavored with leeks.
They met the ambassadors of Italy and Bolivia
At the assembly, and talked trivia.
 “¿Cómo va su sitio web del ambiente?” The Bolivian ambassador
inquired about a network Junior Braun designed, 
That focused on consumable energy decline.
“Está avanzando, señor. Es un honor 
que todavía lo recuerde.” The Clone underscored. 

“Meministine filia Sarra? Et conversus est sex septimanae,
eius natalis velit voco.” Said the Italian as he ate a salami.
The Clone was in great consternation,
For he didn’t understand a word in this invitation. 
And he smiled awkwardly in confusion.
His father woke up to the conclusion 
That cerebral hypoxia caused him to be absentminded.
Promptly he answered for his son, “Erit ibi vocat gratias.”
The real junior Braun stayed at home for the second day, 
And chaotic perspectives of life he surveyed. 
He pried about people around him, his mother in particular
Who was a novelist and had a beneficent character.
He watched her among a collection of kitchenware
making his favorite soup extraordinaire. 
He was sincerely penitent as he recalled her care and easy pardons
Whereupon he realized her love for no repayment.
Eager to make up for his ruthless disregards in the past,
he wanted to change back his identity fast.
So he bargained with himself, “One more day,
And I will take back my position without delay.”
On the third day, he lived an original day, same as his peers,
Which he never experienced in his previous years.
There were no ties and bombastic speeches, 
And he enjoyed a day with popcorns instead of a treatise. 
There was only one annoyance that kept him from gratification:
He could not go to museums or fun fairs and lived in insulation.
As a Clone, he didn’t possess rights or privileges of a citizen.
Bored at last, he picked up a book on health and carcinogens.
Unbeknownst to him is his parents’ discussion
On their son’s brain dysfunction.
“He seems to be infirm.”
the ambassador spelled out his concern,
“I am worried about his current situation,
Moreover, I think it is time for the transplantation.”
His wife pondered for a while and nodded in agreement,
“There is something else that causes me uneasy bafflement,”
She added, “Mrs. Ford, our next door neighbor, told me
yesterday that the Clone peeked into their house queerly. 
I am afraid he is planning against us spitefully.”
The ambassador made up his mind and answered decidedly
“Let’s make the transplant operation tomorrow.”
Unwittingly, they made a mistake of sorrow,
For they had no idea of the exchange between their sons.
The real Junior Braun was slain for the stepson.
In the end, their son can still speak English, Spanish, and Latin,
He was left-handed, lolloped and lived a life of fashion. 
