Lahiri is an expert at using parallelism and similes to explain the nature of a subject. For example, she expounds on why Gogol dislikes his name with these lines, “He hates that his name is both absurd and obscure, that it has nothing to do with who he is, that it is neither Indian nor American” (76). In a parallel sentence structure with three that, Lahiri explains Gogol’s rebellious mentality in details. Gogol and Ashoke’s conversation on Gogol’s birthday night reveals some insights to Gogol’s future development. “We all came out of Gogol’s overcoat.” Ashoke quotes Dostoyevsky and he remarks, “It will make sense to you one day” (78). I read a summary of “The Overcoat” by Nikolai Gogol, and I assume that Ashoke is comparing Nikolai’s protagonist’s attitude towards his shabby coat to Gogol’s feelings towards the Indian culture. Gogol rejects his Indian roots, prefering the American way of life. However, Akaky in “The Overcoat” does not find comforts in buying a new coat, suggesting Gogol’s aloofness to the ABCDs (American-born confused deshi) in college and his act of changing his name will not bring him ultimate happiness. After they return home from the six-month trip to India, the Ganguli family feels unsettled in their big and silent house. This same feeling strikes me every time when I return to my home in China after a thirteen-hour flight. It is a feeling of unfamiliarity because of the subtle changes from my memory. In chapter four and five, divergence starts to show between Gogol and his immigrant parents. Besides Gogol’s lack of affection towards India, they have completely different views on the issue of dating. Interestingly, Gogol becomes a pet name as his parents initially planned. As Nikhil, Gogol is free and his relationship with Ruth helps him form an intimate connection to his new name. Our name is a part of our identity, as Lahiri implies, “How many times does a person write his name in a lifetime – a million? Two million?” (98) I already connect the boy who is born to an Indian immigrant family and who make brilliant drawings with the name Gogol. It is sad for me to remove this connection, I still prefer to refer to the character as Gogol. I am amused when Gogol describes himself as confused and conflicted. Those two C-words genuinely characterizes most teenagers including myself. We are no longer children, yet we are not experienced adults. We are entitled the freedom to make our own decisions, but we also need to tackle with the responsibility that comes with it. In these two chapters, Gogol learns much more about his namesake in his school lecture and from his father. Ashoke finally discloses the accident that nearly takes his life to Gogol. I think if Ashoke explains how Nikolai Gogol changes his life earlier, the name would not have disturbed Gogol as much. 